## Bird Families of Western North America
Here you can find information on the broad groupings of birds in North America. Use this as a resource for identifying "shared ancestry"  
This information is taken from "The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds: Western Region", a book by Miklos D. F. Udvardy published in 1977. Some family information is probably out of date.
### Accipitridae
"*Old World Vultures, Hawks, Harriers*, 280 species: Worldwide, Twenty-two species in North America, many of them migratory. Sparrow- to turkey- sized birds female larger than male. Powerful hooked bill; sharp talons. They hunt live animals in the air or on trees or the ground,and also feed on carrion. Found in all types of habitats. They build a platform nest on trees or on the ground, but some do not build any nest. A few species are colonial. They are called raptors or birds ofprey and are often unjustly accused of killing domestic livestock."
### Alaudidae
"*Larks*, 75 species: Worldwide. One native, one introduced species in North America. Sparrow-sized birds, sexes alike. They run about on open ground or in short vegetation; their long, hind claw and earth colors are suited to their habitat. They are ground nesters."
### Alcedinidae
"*Kingfishers*, 90 species: Worldwide, especialy in the tropics. Three species in North America. They migrate where waters freeze. Warbler to crow-sized birds wtih large head, strong, pointed bill, small feet. Mostly near water but many live in woodlands or on the edge of meadows. They hunt moving animals, chiefly fish, by diving or swooping down from a perch; land kingfishers feed on insects, lizards, and frogs. These birds excavate a deep burrow in an earthen bank and lay 3-10 eggs in it."
### Alcidae
"*Auks, Murres, Puffins*, 22 species: On the cold coasts of the Northern Hemisphere; twenty breed in North America, many of them migratory. Sparrow- to small duck-sized. Mainly black-and-white or dark-colored seabirds, with short narrow wings suited to swimming underwater as well as swift flight. The bill often has odd colors and ornaments. They nest in colonies, breeding on rocky ledges, crevices or in burrows. On land many are nocturnal."
### Anatidae
"*Ducks, Geese, Swans*, 150 species: Worldwide. Forty-three species breed in North America. Many are large; all have webbed feet. Most have a flat, round-tipped bill (some have a hooked bill), and a medium to long neck. Waterfowl nest on or near water, with the young raised mostly on water though adults may range into many types of open habitat. Swans feed in deeper open water, geese graze on marsh and meadow, and ducks are found in all these. Mostly migratory. Some nest on ground, others on water, still others in cavities; most have a large brood. Males largers than females. In swans and geese the sexes look alike. In ducks the males have very colorful nuptial plumage during the pairing season preceding breedings but later, in eclipse plumage, are plainer and more like the females. They feed on wetland plants and seeds, small aquatic animals, fish, and mollusks."
### Apodidae
"*Swifts*, 70 species: Worldwide, but especially numerous in the tropics. Four species, all migratory, in North America. They are aerial birds that never perch; weak feet allow them only to cling to a rock, tree or wall. Long sickle-shaped wings seem to beat alternatively; tail short. Nest of hardened saliva, in the shelter of rock walls, waterfalls, caves, hanging fronds, or leaves of trees; 1-3 eggs. All feed on flying insects, soaring and hawking in the air, sometimes at a great height."
### Ardeidae
"*Herons, Bitterns*, 64 species: Worldwide. Twelve species, most migratory, in North America. These are wading birds of all wetlands but least often on the seashore. Long legs, long, straight bill, long neck, short tail, feet unwebbed. In flight, the neck is generally held in S-curve and the wings flap evenly; larger species soar at times. Stick or reed nest placed in water, on ground or on a tree. Sexes look alike and sex roles in pairing rituals and parental care are nearly identical. Wading in water they stalk and eat mainly fish. Some species have elaborate plumes in breeding season."
### Bombycllidae
