## Bird Families of Western North America
Here you can find information on the broad groupings of birds in North America. Use this as a resource for identifying "shared ancestry"  
This information is taken from "The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds: Western Region", a book by Miklos D. F. Udvardy published in 1977. Some family information is probably out of date.
### Accipitridae
"*Old World Vultures, Hawks, Harriers*, 280 species: Worldwide, Twenty-two species in North America, many of them migratory. Sparrow- to turkey- sized birds female larger than male. Powerful hooked bill; sharp talons. They hunt live animals in the air or on trees or the ground,and also feed on carrion. Found in all types of habitats. They build a platform nest on trees or on the ground, but some do not build any nest. A few species are colonial. They are called raptors or birds ofprey and are often unjustly accused of killing domestic livestock."
### Alaudidae
"*Larks*, 75 species: Worldwide. One native, one introduced species in North America. Sparrow-sized birds, sexes alike. They run about on open ground or in short vegetation; their long, hind claw and earth colors are suited to their habitat. They are ground nesters."
### Alcedinidae
"*Kingfishers*, 90 species: Worldwide, especialy in the tropics. Three species in North America. They migrate where waters freeze. Warbler to crow-sized birds wtih large head, strong, pointed bill, small feet. Mostly near water but many live in woodlands or on the edge of meadows. They hunt moving animals, chiefly fish, by diving or swooping down from a perch; land kingfishers feed on insects, lizards, and frogs. These birds excavate a deep burrow in an earthen bank and lay 3-10 eggs in it."
### Alcidae
"*Auks, Murres, Puffins*, 22 species: On the cold coasts of the Northern Hemisphere; twenty breed in North America, many of them migratory. Sparrow- to small duck-sized. Mainly black-and-white or dark-colored seabirds, with short narrow wings suited to swimming underwater as well as swift flight. The bill often has odd colors and ornaments. They nest in colonies, breeding on rocky ledges, crevices or in burrows. On land many are nocturnal."
### Anatidae
"*Ducks, Geese, Swans*, 150 species: Worldwide. Forty-three species breed in North America. Many are large; all have webbed feet. Most have a flat, round-tipped bill (some have a hooked bill), and a medium to long neck. Waterfowl nest on or near water, with the young raised mostly on water though adults may range into many types of open habitat. Swans feed in deeper open water, geese graze on marsh and meadow, and ducks are found in all these. Mostly migratory. Some nest on ground, others on water, still others in cavities; most have a large brood. Males largers than females. In swans and geese the sexes look alike. In ducks the males have very colorful nuptial plumage during the pairing season preceding breedings but later, in eclipse plumage, are plainer and more like the females. They feed on wetland plants and seeds, small aquatic animals, fish, and mollusks."
### Apodidae
"*Swifts*, 70 species: Worldwide, but especially numerous in the tropics. Four species, all migratory, in North America. They are aerial birds that never perch; weak feet allow them only to cling to a rock, tree or wall. Long sickle-shaped wings seem to beat alternatively; tail short. Nest of hardened saliva, in the shelter of rock walls, waterfalls, caves, hanging fronds, or leaves of trees; 1-3 eggs. All feed on flying insects, soaring and hawking in the air, sometimes at a great height."
### Ardeidae
"*Herons, Bitterns*, 64 species: Worldwide. Twelve species, most migratory, in North America. These are wading birds of all wetlands but least often on the seashore. Long legs, long, straight bill, long neck, short tail, feet unwebbed. In flight, the neck is generally held in S-curve and the wings flap evenly; larger species soar at times. Stick or reed nest placed in water, on ground or on a tree. Sexes look alike and sex roles in pairing rituals and parental care are nearly identical. Wading in water they stalk and eat mainly fish. Some species have elaborate plumes in breeding season."
### Bombycllidae
"*Waxwings*, 3 species: All migratory. Two species breed in North America. Plump, sparrow-sized flycatching birds with upright stature, soft cinnamon colors and silky plumage; named for the bright yellow and/or red waxlike patches on the wings. Woodland birds that feed on berries when these are available, and on insects. They nest in individual territories, but after breeding, flocks gather where a supply of berries is available. Raise 3-6 young in a cup nest in trees."
### Caprimulgidae
"*Nightjars*, 76 species: Worldwide. Six species, all migratory, in North America. Towhee- to Robin-sized, earth-colored nocturnal birds, rest and nest mainly on the ground, with body posture horizontal. They are aerial birds that feeed on insects at twilight or at night. Many have eerie calls. Old wives' tales alleging that they milk goats gave rise to their vernacular name "goatsucker." One or two young are raised on the bare ground without a nest. Long wings and tail and swift flight resemble those of hawks; hence the American name, nighthawk.
### Cathartidae
"*New World Vultures*, 7 species: Found only in tropical and temperate New World. Three in North America, partly migratory. Turkey-sized, large and broad-winged soaring birds of prey; hooked bill but feet and talons are weak, unlike those of other birds of prey. They detect their carrion food from the air. They congregate around large carrion but also search for food themselves. Found in various habitats but mostly open ones. 1-3 young are raised in a sheltered or inaccessible rock ledge, tree hollow, or on the ground, without a nest."
### Certhiidae
"*Creepers*, 5 species: Northern temperature regions, mainly in Eurasia. Only the Brown Creeper is found in North America. Sparrow-sized, tree-clinging birds with pointed tail feathers and down-curved bill. They live in forests in crevices in the trunks of old trees, or among rocks in canyons, or on barren mountaintops. 4-8 eggs. Creepers always climb or flutter upward while searching for insect food on a tree trunk or rock wall."
### Chamaeidae
"*Wrentits*, 1 species: Only in western North America. Sparrow-sized, inconspicuous bird confined to the chaparall habitat where it nests and finds its insect food."
### Charadriidae
"*Plovers*, 60 species: Worldwide except Antarctica. Ten species, all migratory, in North America. Sparrow- to pigeon- sized shorebirds with rather short legs and toes, ocmpact body, shrot neck and bill, rounded head, pointed wings. Some have bold color patterns; sexes look alike. They breed on the ground, in a scrape in sand or gravel. Usually 4 well-camouflaged eggs which both parents tend. Young hatch in down, and can run and feed right off. Not colonial but often unite to defend their brood communally. They feed on animal life in wetlands, running about on beaches, marshes, and meadows."
### Ciconiidae
"*Storks*, 17 species: mainly in the warm zones of the world. Only one breeds in North America, and it is migratory. Large, stocky, long-legged, broad-winged, soaring birds with a long, thick, slightly down-curved bill. They live in wetlands that have trees nearby in which they nest, mostly in colonies. 3-5 eggs. They feed on aquatic animal life mainly by stalking and stabbing, or by probing and catching."
### Cinclidae
"*Dippers*, 5 species: In temperate zones of the Old World and the Americas. One in North America, largely non-migratory. They are stocky, short-tailed, wren-like in appearance and size. These were all originally perching birds but are well adapted to run and feed on aquatic animal life around and at the bottom of fast-running mountain streams. 3-7 eggs in a shelter next to the water."
### Columbidae
"*Pigeons, Doves*, 290 species: Worldwide but mostly in the tropics. Eight native and three introduced species in North America. Sparrow- to duck-sized. Pigeons have short legs, rounded head, pointed wings, fairly long to long tail; they bob the head when walking, and they drink by pumping water down the throat through the immersed bill. They nest on trees or shrubs, in open country or in deep forests, and feed from the ground to tree canopy on fruits, seeds, and foliage. 1-3, but usually 2, eggs at a time in flimsy stick nest. Both parents feed what is known as 'crop milk', to the naked helpless squabs (as the young are called). The New World species are commonly brown or gray but many Old World Species are brightly colored."
### Corvidae
"*Crows, Jays, Magpies*, 107 species: Worldwide except for New Zealand and Antarctica. Fifteen species in North America, many of them migratory. Towhee- to duck-sized, with powerful bill and medium to long tail; sexes look alike. The crows are black but many of the jaws and magpies are colorful. Their habitat is extremely varied but most require trees for nesting. 3-10 eggs in a cup nest, often in colonies. They are omnivorous, feeding on meat (including carrion), insects, fruits, and some vegetables."
### Cotingidae
"*Cotingas*, 90 species: In tropical or subtropical areas of the Americas. Only one species (migratory) in the southernmost United States. Hummingbird- to large-pigeon-sized, sparrow-shaped with short legs, slightly hooked bill, many with a short tail. Mostly colorful with the male often different from the female. They live in wooded habitats and glean fruit and insects from trees. They build a mud nest in trees, rocks, or tree hollows, and raise 1-6 young."
### Cuculidae
"*Cuckoos, Roadrunners, Anis*, 125 species: Worldwide; six in North America, some of them migratory. Sparrow- to crow-sized, long-tailed birds, with slender body, slightly curved and sometimes powerful bill. They live in various habitats but most of them in trees or bushes. They feed on animal matter that they hunt on trees or on the ground; some cuckoos concentrate on hairy caterpillars. 2-6 eggs in a cup nest. Unlike their European relatives, American cuckoos are not nest parasites. Roadrunners are ground cuckoos; anis are social cuckoos that live and even nest together. A familiar American species is the Roadrunner of the Southwest."
### Diomedeidae
"*Albatrosses*, 14 species: Mostly in the oceans of the southern hemisphere, all distinctly migratory. Three visit North America when not breeding. These seabirds are goose-sized or larger, with a powerful bill, hooked at the tip, tube-like nostrils, and very long, narrow wings that allow them to glide endlessly over the waves, picking live squid or floating edibles from the ocean. They lay one egg in a scrape or mound on the beach mainly on islands but also on remote coasts."
### Falconidae
"*Falcons, Caracaras*, 60 species: Worldwide. Six, mostly migratory, falcon species and one caracara species in North America. Falcons are birds of prey, from sparrow to large chicken size, with pointed wings and long tail, generally with a mustache stripe, rounded head and hooked bill with a toothlike notch on it, with taloned feet. Female much larger. They are superb flyers, catching bird prey in the air, or birds and mammals on the ground or in trees. Some also feed on bats and smaller ones take flying insects. Caracaras are large birds resembling hawks or eagles. They often feed on fish, and on the carcasses of fish or other animals. Few falcons build a nest for their 2-6 eggs, but use natural niches or cavities and nests built by other birds."
### Fregatidae
"*Frigatebirds*, 5 species: Warm oceans of the world. One species is an irregular visitor to the southern coasts of North America, and local resident on the keys off Florida's Key West. Duck- or goose-sized birds with long, slender wings, long, forked tail, black or black-and-white in color. These oceanic birds rob other seabirds of their prey or feed on flotsam and, rarely, on live prey. They nest together but not in colonies, on trees and scrub on islands. They raise one young."
### Fringillidae
"*Finches, Grosbeaks, Buntings, Sparrows*, Over 500 species: Worldwide except for Australia and Oceania. Seventy-two native and one introduced species in North America; many migratory. Perching birds with conical bil, hummingbird- to Robin-sized. The largest bird family in the world, they live in all habitat types and also in wetlands. They feed on seeds and insects which they glean from the ground, plants, or trees. 2-6 young in a cup nest are raised mostly on insect food, some on soft seeds."
### Gaviidae
"*Loons*, 4 species: All in the marshes and bogs of the boreal forest and tundra belts of the nortern part of Eurasia and North America. Duck-like diving birds (called 'Divers' in the Old World) with a heavy, pointed bill; feet set back. Sexes look alike. They feed on fish and aquatic life. They have two young in a mound nest near water, tended by both parents."
### Gruidae
"*Cranes*, 15 species: In Eurasia, Africa, and Australia. Two in North America: the nearly extinct Whooping Crane and the more numerous Sandhill Crane. Large, long-legged, long-necked waders, they are among the tallest birds in the world. Long-distance migrants, they have broad wings and do much soaring and gliding. They fly with neck and feet outstretched like storks, but in noisy groups with bugling calls that carry far. Two or three eggs in a mound nest in marshes, bogs, or muskegs. In winter they often feed on grainfields and prairies, taking seeds, insects, mice and the like. Though solitary during nesting, they are very social at other times."
### Haematopodidae
"*Oystercatchers*, 7 species: On all temperate coasts, some inland. Two species in North America. Pigeon-sized stocky shorebirds with straight, long, somewhat heavy bill, longish legs, and rather short neck. Mostly black or black-and-white, with reddish bills and legs. They are found on rocky beaches in the intertidal zone, feeding on marine animals such as shellfish, especially mollusks, which they pry off the rocks and open with their laterally flattened bill. 2-5 downy chicks are hatched in a scrape. After breeding they gather in flocks."
### Hirundinidae
"*Swallows*, 80 species: Worldwide. Eight species in North America, all migratory. Warbler- to blackbird-sized birds, with small bill, and often notched or forked tail. They are excellent flyers and feed in the air on flying insect life. The nest in protected ledges or in cavities, sometimes on manmade structures. Many use mud to build a nest cup or sphere. 2-6 eggs. Many of them are very social and nest in colonies."
### Hydrobatidae
"*Storm-Petrels*, 21 species: Worldwide. Four in North America, all migratory; several others are accidentals, since these oceanic birds are great wanderers. They are of sparrow to blackbird size, often with black-and-white and gray colors, notched or foked tail, pointed wings, and dainty, hooked bill. They hover and hawk over the ocean surface, searching for edible flotsam, or dive for near-surface plankton. One or two eggs in a sheltered crevice or burrow on an island, which they visit only at night."
### Icteridae
"*Blackbirds, Meadowlarks, Orioles*, 94 species: All of them in the Americas, nineteen of them native and one introduced to North America. Sparrow- to crow-sized birds, with a rather powerful bill. Males often larger, brighter, differently colored or with larger tail than females. In various habitats but most of them perch in trees or bushes. Many nest in colonies and raise 2-6 young in a woven cup or hanging basket nest. They feed on insects, fruit, even nectar or seed. Meadowlarks and Bobolinks live in open country; troupials and smaller but similar orioles inhabit trees; blackbirds and cowbirds feed mainly on the ground but nest in trees, bushes or reeds. The cowbirds are nest parasites."
### Laniidae
"*Shrikes*, 74 species: Old world. Only two species live in North America, both migratory. Sparrow- to robin-sized perching birds with a hooked bill. They are territorial birds, living in open, brushy, or wooded habitats and pursue insects or small reptiles, mammals, and birds from watchposts. They are known for impaling their prey on a thorn or pressing it into a tree crotch, often as a food cache. They build a cup nest and lay 2-6 eggs."
### Laridae
"*Gulls, Terns*, 80 species: Worldwide. Thirty-one in North America, mostly migratory. Blackbird- to large duck-sized waterbirds. They have strong, long wings, and are excellent flyers. Their bill may be slender, stout, pointed, or hooked. Gulls feed on every kind of flotsam, including offal, at the tideline on the beach, but mainly animal matter. Some are accomplished fishers. Terns hover and plunge-dive for fish and other surface animals. They nest in colonies, raise 1-4 young in a nest or scrape, on a safe islet, sand bank, coral bank, rock or ledge."
### Meleagrididae
"*Turkeys*, 2 species: One in North America, the other in Central America. Large, colorful gamebirds found in dense forest. The Domestic Turkey stems from the North American Wild Turkey: Bare neck and head with skin red or blue; long legs. They feed and nest on the ground. The make, or gobbler, is polygamous; the female, or hen, raises 7-20 chicks alone. They feed on insects, worms, lizards, seeds-- especially acorns-- and foliage. They roost on trees."
### Mimidae
"*Mockingbirds, Thrashers*, 30 species: Only in the Americas. Ten mostly nonmigratory birds in North America, including such familiar birds as the Catbird and the Mockingbird. Blackbird- to Robin-sized, short-winged perching birds. They liev and nest in trees, bushes, or in cacti but feed mainly on the ground. They are distinctly territorial."
### Motacillidae
"*Pipits, Wagtails*, 50 species: Worldwide, but mainly in Old World. Five species in North America, all migratory. Warbler- to sparrow-sized ground birds though many require a song perch and roost in tangles and trees. They nest on the ground, in a cavity or high vegetation and lay 2-7 eggs in a cup nest. They feed on the ground in open or grassy areas. As the name suggests, wagtails constantly wag their long tail."
### Pandionidae
"*Ospreys*, 1 species: Worldwide and truly cosmopolitan. Large, hawk-sized, hook-billed birds of prey. They nest on trees or crags near water, fish by hovering and plunge-diving, and have sharp scales on the bottom of their feet for holding their prey. 2-4 young in a stick nest."
### Paridae
"*Titmice, Verdins, Bushtits*, 65 species: Worldwide except for South America. Twelve species in North America, all nonmigratory. Small perching birds of warbler to sparrow size, with rather short bill and wings. They often hang from small twigs. Trees, bushes, or scrub are essential; otherwise their habitat varies widely, from subarctic to desert areas. They feed on insects and in, in the North, on oily seeds and nuts, and store food. 4-15 eggs in a neat nest in a tree hole (titmice and chickadees) or in a domed nest with a side entrance in a tree or cactus (verdins and bushtits)."
### Parulidae
"*Wood Warblers*, 125 species: The New World. Fifty-two species breed in North America, mostly migratory. Very small to sparrow-sized, slender perching birds with fine slender bill. Mostly bright-colored birds that keep steadily on the move in search of insect food in the foliage of trees or bushes; they also take berries. Cup nest in a tree, bush, or on the ground contains 2-6 eggs. In all wooded or brushy habitats."
### Pelecanidae
"*Pelicans*, 8 species: Nearly worldwide. Two species in North America, one white, the other brown, and both migratory. Large, goose-sized waterbirds with huge pouched bill, strong broad wings for soaring, and webbed feet. These seabirds are found inshore or on larger inland lakes and marshes. They feed by diving or plunge-diving on fish. 1-6 eggs in a large platform nest on the ground or rock in a tree; in colonies."
### Phaetontidae
"*Tropicbirds*, 3 species: In tropical oceans. All three species occasionally visit North American waters but none nests here. Crow-sized white or partly barred birds with long, slender tail like a pheasant's , and gull-like wings. They nest in rock crevices or under brush, laying one egg without a nest. They feed on squid and fish."
### Phalacrocoracidae
"*Cormorants*, 33 species: Worldwide. Six species in North America. On ocean shores and inland waters where they dive for fish from the surface of the water. Crow to small goose size, with long nek, upright posture, powerful, longish, hooked bill, webbed feet, black or black-and-white plumage. 3-6 eggs in a platform nest in colonies on a tree, rock ledge or the ground."
### Phalaropodidae
"*Phalaropes*, 3 species: All in North America and all migratory. Two of these also occur in Arctic Eurasia. Towhee- to Robin-sized shorebirds with slender, pointed bil. They swim on lake or sea, and feed on planktonic animal life near the surface of the water. Sex roles reversed: brighter colored female is territorial, lays four eggs in a nest on the ground but leaves the male or males with the clutch shortly after laying."
### Phasianidae
"*Pheasants, Partridges, Quail*, 189 species: Worldwide. Six native and three introduced species in North America; quail are native, but partridges and pheasants are introduced from Eurasia. Hen-like birds, sturdy legs for running and scraping, slightly curved bill, rounded, short wings. They feed on the ground on vegetation, insects, and seeds. Most perch for roosting but nest on the ground."
### Picidae
"*Woodpeckers*, 210 species: Almost worldwide, except for Australia, New Zealand, and New Guinea. Twenty species in North America, some migratory. Hummingbird- to crow-sized perching birds with stiff, pointed tail, short legs, long otoes and claws with which they cling to the trunks and branches of trees. They live in all wooded habitats and in desert cactus. They feed on insects that they catch by chiseling or pecking into the bark of trees or glean on the ground. They also take fruit, nuts--which they often store-- and the sap of trees. Some are colonial or even communal. They breed in tree holes that they dig themselves or take over from other birds. 2-12 eggs without a nest. The sexes usually look alike."
### Ploceidae
"*Weaver, Finches*, 143 species: The Old World. Two non-migratory species introduced to North America. Brightly colored perching birds of hummingbird- to Robin-size, some with a very long tail, but all with the short, conical bill typical of seed-eaters. Habitat ranges from grasslands to woods. 2-8 eggs in cone-shaped, domed, or huge communal and often remarkably woven nests. They eat insects as well as seeds. Two species, the House Sparrow and the European Tree Sparrow, have been widely introduced elsewhere."
### Podicipedidae
"*Grebes*, 20 species: Worldwide. Six species, all migratory, in North America. Robin- to large crow-sized swimming and diving birds, with slender neck, straight, pointed bill, narrow, pointed wings, feet far back on body. They are waterbirds of lakes, ponds and marshes, where they dive for polywogs, fish, and other animal foodm but they also take vegetation. Male and female look alike. They raise 2-10 young on a floating plant nest."
### Procellariidae
"*Shearwaters, Petrels, Fulmars*, 65 species: Worldwide but mainly in the southern hemisphere. Only two species breed in North America. Small gull- to goose-sized. Seabirds resembling gulls but with longer and more slender wings, hooked bill with tube-like nostrils. They are oceanic, gliding over waves on stiff wings, and feeding on fish, plankton, and squid from near the surface. They nest in colonies mostly in burrows they themselves dig. 1-2 young raised by both parents, mostly during nocturnal visits. They make long migrations annually."
### Ptilogonitidae
"*Silky Flycatchers*, 4 species: Central America, but one species reaches into the southwestern United States. Slender, crested, short-winged towhee-sized birds. They feed by catching birds or gleaning insects, and also take berries. 2-4 eggs in a cup nest in a tree."
### Rallidae
"*Rails, Gallinules, Coots*, 130 species: Worldwide. Nine species, mostly migratory, in North America. Sparrow- to chicken-sized water and marsh birds, with short wings and tails. They bob as they swim and some marsh species such as the gallinules have long toes that enable them to walk on lily pads. Except for the gallinules, these birds have subdued colors that blend with their surroundings. The marsh species feed on aquatic vegetable or animal matter by picking or diving or even by climbing on reeds. 2-16 eggs in a platform or dome nest on water or hidden among reeds. Many flightless rails of oceanic islands are now extinct."
### Recurvirostridae
"*Avocets, Stilts*, 7 species: Worldwide in warmer climates. Two species, both migratory, in North America. Medium-sized waders but with very long legs, necks, and bills. The bill of stilts is straight, that of avocets curves upward. They favor open marshes and shores, where they wade, probe for insect food, and lay a clutch of four eggs in a ground scrape."
### Scolopacidae
"*Woodcocks, Snipe, Sandpipers*,90 species: Worldwide. Thirty-five, mostly migratory, in North America, some visiting seasonally from Asia. These wading birds vary widely in size and in the length of bill, neck, and legs. But their plumage generally matches their background, often changing with the season. All nest in a ground scrape, many of them on the Arctic tundra. The 2-4 eggs are tended by one or both parents, according to the species. Most are gregarious, at least after the breeding season, and all feed on the animal life of marshes, shores, or other open areas. Most of the 'shorebirds', with exception of plovers, are in this family."
### Sittidae
"*Nuthatches*, 22 species: In many parts of the world. Four species, mainly migratory, in North America. Hummingbird- to bluebird-sized, chunky, short-necked, short-tailed, and short-winged tree clingers with a straight, long, powerful bill. They are noted for running up or down tree trunks or rocks, gleaning insects and sometimes storing nuts. They nest in tree or ground cavities, and lay 4-10 eggs."
### Stercorariidae
"*Jaegers, Skuas*, 4 species: Arctic and Antarctic oceans and coasts. All widely migratory, three nesting in North America and one other visiting there. Crow- to raven-sized, gull-like, slender waterbirds with long conspicuous tail, darkish coloration, and hooked bill. They have fast, flapping, falcon-like flight. They are predatory when on land, attacking smaller mammals and birds; at sea, parasitic, forcefully taking food from other seabirds. They breed on the tundra and lay 2-4 eggs in a ground nest."
### Strigidae
"*True Owls*, 130 species: Worldwide. Seventeen species, some migratory, in  North America. Sparrow- to duck-sized, large round head, fluffy plumage that muffles sound, a disk-shaped face with a hooked bill and large eyes, broad, rounded wings, and silent flight. They are nocturnal or twilight hunters of ground mammals and birds in all land habitats and even marshes. They raise 1-7 young from round, white eggs, often laid in a cavity, a tree hole, or on the ground, without a nest except when adopted from another bird."
### Sturnidae
"*Starlings*, 111 species: The Old World and the southern continents, two species introduced into North America. Sturdy, perching birds of bluebird to crow size, with a short square tail, a straight or somewhat hooked bill, and often with glossy black plumage. They live in woodlands, grasslands, or near man. Omnivorous, feeding on insects, seeds, and fruits, with some of them doing damage to crops. 3-7 eggs in a cup nest in a cavity in trees or in niches of buildings. Strongly social, except during the breeding season."
### Sulidae
"*Boobies, Gannets*, 9 species: Almost worldwide on temperate and tropical shores. One species breeds in North America, and four others visit there. Duck- to goose-sized seabirds with long, slender wings, wedge-shaped tail, longish neck, webbed feet, and long, straight, pointed bill. They plunge-dive for fish and squid in oceanic or offshore waters. They nest on cliffs or in trees, laying 1-3 eggs in stick platform."
### Sylviidae
"*Kinglets, Gnatcatchers, Old World Warblers*, 300 species: Worldwide but mainly in the Old World and on the southern continents. Five species in North America. Very small warbler-sized perching birds. They feed on insects in wooded habitats or wetlands and marshes. 2-10 eggs laid in an est on trees, on the ground, or in reeds."
### Tetraonidae
"*Grouse, Ptarmigan*, 18 species: North temperature and Arctic regions. Ten species in North America, mainly non-migratory. Hen-like birds, quail- to turkey-sized, male often much larger than female. Rounded wings, sturdy feet suitable for scratching, and slightly curved bill. In various habitats from tundra to sagebrush desert, but American species found chiefly in grasslands. Where possible, they roost on trees, but generally feed on vegetable and animal food on the ground. If the ground is snow covered, northern species feed in the treetops on vegetable matter such as needles, catkins and twings. Most species engage in elaborate courtship displays on communal display grounds. Males mostly polygamous; females lay 6-16 eggs in a ground scrape."
### Thraupidae
"*Tanagers*, 240 species: In the Americas only. North America has only four native and one introduced species. Brightly colored perching birds of hummingbird- to jay-size, with thick bill or with upper mandible notched. They live mainly in forests, woods, and thickets, and feed on insects, fruit, and nectar. Some feed mainly on mistletoe. 1-5 eggs in a cup nest on a branch."
### Threskiornithidae
"*Ibises, Spoonbills*, 33 species: Warmer climates of the world. Four species, all migratory, in North America. Duck or large heron size; long-legged, long-necked, and long-billed waders, with down-curved (ibis), or ladle-shaped (spoonbill) bill. They wade in marshes and ponds, searching for aquatic animals. They nest in colonies on trees, cliffs, or in reeds, and raise 2-5 young in a stick nest."
### Trochilidae
"*Hummingbirds*, 320 species: Only in the Americas. Fifteen species, partly migratory, breed in North America. Among the tiniest and most colorful birds, often with bright metallic colors, especially on the male's head or gorget. They are also known for wings that beat with great rapidity, make a humming noise, and enable them to hover or fly backwards. They use their long slender bills and long brushy tongues to feed on nectar and insects. All lay two large, white eggs in a finely woven cup nest on a branch or root, often sheltered from above."
### Troglodytidae
"*Wrens*, 60 species: All in the Americas, with ten in North America. One of these is also found in Eurasia and northern Africa. Mostly small birds, often with an upcocked tail, a mottled or patterend brownish or tan coloration, and a loud song. They have a lively way of searching for food, such as insects in trees, bushes, reeds, or cactus. 2-5 eggs in a woven, domed nest."
### Trogonidae
"*Trogons*, 34 species: Tropical areas of America, Asia, and Africa. One species barely reaches the southwestern borders of the United States. Towhee- to Crow-sized, long-tailed, slim birds with round head, large mouth, short, hooked bill, short legs, and upright perching stance. They are the forest birds that glean insects and fruit. 2-4 eggs in tree holes or termite nests."
### Turdidae
"*Thrushes, Solitaires, Bluebirds*, 310 species: Worldwide, except for New Zealand. Thirteen migratory species in North America. Chickadee- to jay-sized perching birds, with narrow, somewhat notched bill, and sturdy feet. They favor wooded, open, or marshy habitats and lay 2-12 eggs in a nest, often reinfored with mud, in the crotch of a tree or in a hole in a tree or rock. They feed on insects but fruit is also a seasonal staple. Most familiar in North America are the American Robin and the bluebirds. The young of all species have spotted breasts."
### Tyrannidae
"*Tyrant Flycatchers*, 300 species: In the Americas only. Thirty-one species in North America, mostly migratory. Hummingbird- to jay-sized, large-headed, short-legged birds with broad flat bill, slightly hooked at the tip. Sexes look alike. They occupy various wooded habitats. In feeding they dart out from a perch to pursue insects in the air, on the ground, or in the forest canopy. A cup nest, sometimes set in a niche or cavity, contains 2-6 eggs."
### Tytonidae
"*Barn Owls*, 10 species: Worldwide, except for New Zealand. The one species in North America, the Barn Owl, is non-migratory. Tbese are large-headed birds with a heart-shaped, disk-like face and long, feathered legs. They feed on rodents and birds picked from the ground, a tree, or even from the air at night mostly in forests (but also in grasslands in the Old World tropics). They nest in a hole or niche, laying 4-7 eggs."
### Vireonidae
"*Vireos*, 43 species: In the Americas only. Twelve species, all migratory, in North America. Warbler- to finch-sized, greenish or grayish stocky perching birds, with a slightly hooked tip on a straight, sturdy bill. They occupy various wooded or brushy habitats in which they hunt insects in the forest canopy. 2-5 eggs in a woven cup nest suspended from a horizontal crotch in a tree."
